---
layout: post
title:  Diversity
date:   2017-08-09 16:00:00 +0200
categories: blog
comments: true
---

Recently [an internal message between googlers][gizmodo link] raised a lot of
media attention and discussions about diversity as an issue in IT and computer
science departments. We all kind of know that these discussions will not go away
soon because lack of diversity in certain fields (racial and gender) is an
issue. I didn't even read the message because the quoted sections in news was
enough to make my mind: the author of this memo needs learn more about
complicated aspects of the issue. The false argument directly linking biological
differences with social status is not just wrong, it can hurt people. Then after
Google fired the guy. I read [this article in the Atlantic][theatlantic link],
which convinced me to take a look at the full-text memo (the Gizmodo link above).

I came to this conclusion: This former-googler (28yrs James Damore) crossed some
lines on a politically sensitive issue at the same time I believe he is treated
unfairly by the media and his former employer. Frankly, I believe firing him was
the easiest option for Google. It seems they wanted to get rid of attacks from
media and redirect it to specific person. But the message by the VP of Diversity
in Google, Danielle Brown, didn't convince me. In her letter (you can fide it in
first Gizmodo link), she argues for "Building an open, inclusive environment",
we need a discourse pro to our the principles. To me, it is fine! A companies
can ask their employees "if you say something that hurts us and other we will
fire you" but this is definitely not a definition for an open environment.

I believe they could do better by turning this situation into an opportunity
to have a serious conversation about diversity. By firing someone who expressed
his opinion in the internal memo (although wrong), they created a right wing
martyr out of a 28 years old.

[theatlantic link]: https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2017/08/the-most-common-error-in-coverage-of-the-google-memo/536181/?utm_source=atlfb
[gizmodo link]:https://gizmodo.com/exclusive-heres-the-full-10-page-anti-diversity-screed-1797564320/amp
